Parallel execution docs (#347)
cucumber/docs: content/docs/guides/parallel-execution.md

---
title: Parallel Execution
subtitle: Using multiple threads to reduce test times
polyglot:
 - java
 - kotlin
 
weight: 1800
---
{{% block "java,kotlin" %}}

> Cucumber-JVM allows [parallel execution](https://cucumber.io/blog/announcing-cucumber-jvm-4-0-0/) across multiple threads since version 4.0.0. There are several options to incorporate this built-in feature in a Cucumber project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cucumber-JVM allows parallel execution across multiple threads since [version 4.0.0.](https://cucumber.io/blog/announcing-cucumber-jvm-4-0-0/) There are several options to incorporate this built-in feature in a Cucumber project. You can do so using:
```

Author: Added to batch commit

- [JUnit](/docs/guides/parallel-execution/#junit)
- [TestNG](/docs/guides/parallel-execution/#testng)
- [CLI](/docs/guides/parallel-execution/#cli)

For each of these options, this tutorial will look at the project setup, configuration settings and execution commands.
{{% /block %}}

# JUnit

{{% block "java,kotlin" %}}
Cucumber can be executed in parallel using **JUnit and Maven test execution plugins**. In JUnit the **feature files are run in parallel rather than scenarios**, which means **all the scenarios in a feature file will be executed by the same thread**. You can use either Maven Surefire or Failsafe plugin to execute the runners.

> - Create a Maven project in your favorite IDE using the [cucumber-archetype](/docs/guides/10-minute-tutorial/#create-an-empty-cucumber-project) or adding Cucumber dependencies to the POM as detailed [here](https://cucumber.io/docs/installation/java/#maven) and Junit dependencies [here](/docs/cucumber/checking-assertions/#junit).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a Maven project in your favorite IDE using the [cucumber-archetype](/docs/guides/10-minute-tutorial/#create-an-empty-cucumber-project) or by adding Cucumber dependencies to the POM as detailed [here](https://cucumber.io/docs/installation/java/#maven) and Junit dependencies [here](/docs/cucumber/checking-assertions/#junit).
```

Author: Added to batch commit

- Create a **parallel** folder (or any other name) in `src/test/resources` path and add the two feature files (`scenarios.feature` and `scenario-outlines.feature`) inside it.

```gherkin
Feature: Scenarios feature file

  Scenario: Scenario Number One
    Given Step from 'Scenario 1' in 'scenarios' feature file

  Scenario: Scenario Number Two
    Given Step from 'Scenario 2' in 'scenarios' feature file
```

```gherkin
Feature: Scenario Outlines feature file

  Scenario Outline: <scen_out_row_num>
    Given Step from '<scen_out_row_num>' in 'scenario-outlines' feature file

    Examples: 
      | scen_out_row_num       |
      | Scenario Outline Row 1 |
      | Scenario Outline Row 2 |
```

- Add the **step definition class** to the `parallel` package (same name as folder above for automatic pickup by runner) in `src/test/java` folder.
{{% /block %}}

{{% block "java" %}}

```java
package parallel;

import cucumber.api.java.BeforeStep;
import cucumber.api.java.en.Given;

> public class Stepdefs {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public class StepDefs {
```

Author: Added to batch commit

	@Given("Step from {string} in {string} feature file")
	public void step(String scenario, String file) {

> 		System.out.format("Thread ID - %2d - %s from %s feature file.\n", Thread.currentThread().getId(), scenario,file);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		System.out.format("Thread ID - %2d - %s from %s feature file.\n",
		Thread.currentThread().getId(), scenario,file);
```

Reviewer: Prevent (or at least limit) horizontal scrolling.

Author: Added to batch commit

	}
}
```
{{% /block %}}

{{% block "kotlin" %}}

```kotlin
package parallel

import cucumber.api.java8.En

> class Stepdefs : En {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class StepDefs : En {
```

Author: Added to batch commit

> 		Given("Step from {string} in {string} feature file") { scenario: String , file: String ->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		    init {
        Given("Step from {string} in {string} feature file") { scenario: String , file: String ->
            println("Thread ID - ${Thread.currentThread().id} - $scenario from $file feature file")
        }
    }
```

Reviewer: When using lambda's with Kotlin, the stepdefs need to be inside an `init {}` block.
We could consider adding examples both with annotations and lambdas, but that could be a separate additional PR; let's get this one merged asap. :)

Author: Added to batch commit

			println("Thread ID - ${Thread.currentThread().id} - $scenario from $file feature file")
       }
	}
}
```
{{% /block %}}

{{% block "java,kotlin" %}}
- Add a cucumber **runner** using the `RunWith` annotation in the `parallel` package (same name as step definition package) in the `src/test/java` folder.
{{% /block %}}

> {{% block "java" %}}

Reviewer: Afaik you don't need both the {{% block "java" %}} and the ```java around the code for it to only show up in the right language tab, but do try that out first..

```java
package parallel;

import cucumber.api.junit.Cucumber;
import org.junit.runner.RunWith;

@RunWith(Cucumber.class)
public class RunCucumberTest {
}
```
{{% /block %}}

{{% block "kotlin" %}}

```kotlin
package parallel

import cucumber.api.junit.Cucumber
import org.junit.runner.RunWith

@RunWith(Cucumber::class)

> class RunCucumberTest {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class RunCucumberTest
```

Author: Added to batch commit

> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: These brackets are optional in Kotlin for empty class.

Author: Added to batch commit

```
{{% /block %}}

{{% block "java,kotlin" %}}
- Add the **Surefire plugin configuration** to the `build` section to the `POM`.

```shell
<plugin>
	<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
	<artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
	<version>2.22.0</version>
	<configuration>
		<parallel>methods</parallel>
		<useUnlimitedThreads>true</useUnlimitedThreads>
	</configuration>
</plugin>
```

> 

Reviewer: {{% block "kotlin" %}}
For Surefire to find your step definitions, make sure they are in `src/test/**java**`.
{{% /block %}}

Reviewer: Alternatively, it might be possible to configure Surefire to use `src/test/kotlin`, but I don't know how.

- Use the Maven `install` or a suitable command to **execute** the `POM`. This should run in parallel threaded mode. You should see a result similar to below. It is important to note that **both the scenarios in the file (`scenarios.feature`) are executed by thread with ID 14**. Similarly **both the rows of the scenario outline in the file (`scenario-outlines.feature`) are executed by thread with ID 13**.

```shell
Thread ID - 13 - Scenario Outline Row 1 from scenario-outlines feature file.
Thread ID - 13 - Scenario Outline Row 2 from scenario-outlines feature file.
Thread ID - 14 - Scenario 1 from scenarios feature file.
Thread ID - 14 - Scenario 2 from scenarios feature file.
```

- To execute using a Maven **Failsafe plugin include the below configuration** in the `build` section to the `POM`. Rename the runner class to `RunCucumberIT`.  You can find further details [here](/docs/community/not-cucumber/#maven-execution-plugin).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% block "kotlin" %}}
For Failsafe to find your step definitions, make sure they are in src/test/**java**.
{{% /block %}}
```

Reviewer: Alternatively, it might be possible to configure Failsafe to use `src/test/kotlin`, but I don't know how.

Thread ID - 14 - Scenario Outline Row 1 from scenario-outlines feature file.
Thread ID - 16 - Scenario 1 from scenarios feature file.
Thread ID - 17 - [Scenario 2 from scenarios feature file.
```

- To execute using a Maven **Failsafe plugin**, setup the `POM` as described in the JUnit section. Remove the `parallel` and `useUnlimitedThreads` settings in the `configuration` part.

The default **thread count of the dataprovider** in parallel mode is **10**. To change this the `dataproviderthreadcount` property needs to be added to the `configuration` section of the Surefire or Failsafe plugin in the `POM`.
```shell
<configuration>
	<properties>
    	<property>
        	<name>dataproviderthreadcount</name>
        	<value>20</value>
    	</property>
	</properties>
</configuration>
```

If you have **multiple runners**, set the parallel configuration of `classes` to reduce execution times. In addition the `threadCount` can be set to to the desired value or `useUnlimitedThreads` can be set to true.
```shell
<configuration>
	<parallel>classes</parallel>
	<threadCount>4</threadCount>
</configuration>
```
{{% /block %}}

# CLI

{{% block "java,kotlin" %}}

> The `Main class` in the `cucumber.api.cli package` is used to execute the feature files. You can run this class directly from the command line; in that case, there is no need to create any runner class. The usage options for this class is mentioned [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-jvm/blob/v4.0.0/core/src/main/resources/cucumber/api/cli/USAGE.txt). The `--threads` option needs to be set to a value **greater than 1** to run in parallel. When the parallel mode is used, the scenarios and rows in a scenario outline will be run in multiple threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Main class` in the `cucumber.api.cli package` is used to execute the feature files. You can run this class directly from the command line; in that case, there is no need to create any runner class. The usage options for this class are mentioned [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-jvm/blob/v4.0.0/core/src/main/resources/cucumber/api/cli/USAGE.txt). The `--threads` option needs to be set to a value **greater than 1** to run in parallel. When the parallel mode is used, the scenarios and rows in a scenario outline will be run in multiple threads.
```

Author: Added to batch commit

 
Below is the basic command to start the execution.
```shell

> java -cp <classpath> cucumber.api.cli.Main -g <glue package> --threads <thread count> <path to feature files>

Reviewer: Could you please **also** provide an example of what this command would like look like with the setup as described in this guide (i.e. using directory `parallel`). I'm not too familiar with running Cucumber from the command line so I cannot get this to work.

```

Follow the steps below to **execute the command from a terminal**.

> - Download the cucumber jars from the cucumber.io repository into a folder. These need to be provided in the **classpath**.

Reviewer: This really needs to be removed. We don't recommend downloading individual jars, as it's very easy to get the wrong dependencies which leads to problems/questions.

Reviewer: In my opinion, we only need to mention how to **run** in parallel from the CLI, using the `--threads <number of threads>` option.

Author: Removed.

> - Download the cucumber jars from the cucumber.io repository into a folder. These need to be provided in the **classpath**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Added to batch commit

> - Create a folder named `cucumbercli` and a folder `parallel` (or any folder names) inside it, to keep the step definition classes and feature files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Added to batch commit

- Add the two feature files (`scenarios.feature` and `scenario-outlines.feature`) and **step definition class** as described in the JUnit section.

> - Open up a **terminal window** and navigate to the source folder of the project, in our case `cucumbercli`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Open up a **terminal window** and navigate to the source folder of the project.
```

Author: Added to batch commit

{{% /block %}}

{{% block "java" %}}
- Compile the step definition class. Add the **path to the folder containing cucumber jars to the classpath** using the **-cp** option.

```shell

> javac -cp .;<path to cucumber jar folder>/* ./parallel/Stepdefs.java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
javac -cp .;<path to cucumber jar folder>/* ./parallel/StepDefs.java
```

Author: Added to batch commit

```
{{% /block %}}

{{% block "kotlin" %}}
- Compile the step definition class. Add **path to each of the downloaded cucumber jars to the classpath** using the **-cp** option.

```shell

> kotlinc -cp .;<path to each cucumber jar> -jvm-target 1.8 ./parallel/Stepdefs.java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kotlinc -cp .;<path to each cucumber jar> -jvm-target 1.8 ./parallel/StepDefs.kt
```

Author: Added to batch commit

---
title: Parallel Execution
subtitle: Using multiple threads to reduce test times
polyglot:
 - java
 - kotlin
 
weight: 1800
---
{{% block "java,kotlin" %}}
Cucumber-JVM allows [parallel execution](https://cucumber.io/blog/announcing-cucumber-jvm-4-0-0/) across multiple threads since version 4.0.0. There are several options to incorporate this built-in feature in a Cucumber project.

- [JUnit](/docs/guides/parallel-execution/#junit)
- [TestNG](/docs/guides/parallel-execution/#testng)
- [CLI](/docs/guides/parallel-execution/#cli)

For each of these options, this tutorial will look at the project setup, configuration settings and execution commands.
{{% /block %}}

# JUnit

{{% block "java,kotlin" %}}
Cucumber can be executed in parallel using **JUnit and Maven test execution plugins**. In JUnit the **feature files are run in parallel rather than scenarios**, which means **all the scenarios in a feature file will be executed by the same thread**. You can use either Maven Surefire or Failsafe plugin to execute the runners.

- Create a Maven project in your favorite IDE. Add `cucumber-java8` and `cucumber-junit` **dependencies** to the `POM`.

> ```shell

Reviewer: We also mention this [here](https://cucumber.io/docs/installation/java/#maven) and [here](https://cucumber.io/docs/tools/java/#maven) - I guess it's ok to duplicate though.

Author: Will add this and the archetype option. Reader can pick anyone of them.

<dependency>
	<groupId>io.cucumber</groupId>
	<artifactId>cucumber-java8</artifactId>
	<version>{{% version "cucumberjvm" %}}</version>
	<scope>test</scope>
</dependency>

> <dependency>

Reviewer: We also mention this [here](https://cucumber.io/docs/cucumber/checking-assertions/#junit). Again, I think it's ok to duplicate, otherwise the reader would be clicking back and forth.

Note that the JUnit dependency itself is missing on this page - could you add it here too?

Author: No need to add the junit or testng dependency explicitly in pom. The cucumber-junit or cucumber-testng pulls them as a transitive one.

---
title: Parallel Execution
subtitle: Using multiple threads to reduce test times
polyglot:
 - java
 - kotlin
 
weight: 1800
---

> Cucumber-JVM allows [parallel execution](https://cucumber.io/blog/announcing-cucumber-jvm-4-0-0/) across multiple threads since version 4.0.0. There are several options to incorporate this inbuilt feature in a Cucumber project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cucumber-JVM allows [parallel execution](https://cucumber.io/blog/announcing-cucumber-jvm-4-0-0/) across multiple threads since version 4.0.0. There are several options to incorporate this built-in feature in a Cucumber project.
```

- [JUnit](/docs/guides/parallel-execution/#junit)
- [TestNG](/docs/guides/parallel-execution/#testng)
- [CLI](/docs/guides/parallel-execution/#cli)

> For each of these options, this tutorial will look at the project setup, configuration settings, execution commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each of these options, this tutorial will look at the project setup, configuration settings and execution commands.
```

# JUnit

> Cucumber can be executed in parallel using **JUnit and Maven test execution plugins**. In JUnit the **feature files are run in parallel rather than scenarios**, which means **all the scenarios in a feature file will be executed by the same thread**. One can use either Maven Surefire or Failsafe plugin for executing the runners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cucumber can be executed in parallel using **JUnit and Maven test execution plugins**. In JUnit the **feature files are run in parallel rather than scenarios**, which means **all the scenarios in a feature file will be executed by the same thread**. You can use either Maven Surefire or Failsafe plugin to execute the runners.
```

- Create a Maven project in your favorite IDE. Add `cucumber-java8` and `cucumber-junit` **dependencies** to the `POM`.

```shell
<dependency>
	<groupId>io.cucumber</groupId>
	<artifactId>cucumber-java8</artifactId>
	<version>{{% version "cucumberjvm" %}}</version>
	<scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
	<groupId>io.cucumber</groupId>
	<artifactId>cucumber-junit</artifactId>
	<version>{{% version "cucumberjvm" %}}</version>
	<scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

> - Create a **parallel** folder in `src/test/resources` path and add the two feature files (`scenarios.feature` and `scenariooutlines.feature`) inside it.

Reviewer: Is the "parallel" folder needed (both in `src/test/resources` and `src/test/java`) for configuration reasons, or is this a nice to have / suggestion?

Author: No configuration reason. Just a package name I thought would be appropriate. Will mention that folder can be named anything.

Reviewer: Ok, thanks. That's what I thought, I just wanted to make sure. If it's not needed, maybe don't mention creating a folder at all, to prevent confusion?

Author: The class files are kept in the parallel package. If the feature files are kept in the parallel folder these are picked up automatically without adding any configuration to the CucumberOptions annotation.

```gherkin
Feature: Scenarios feature file

  Scenario: Scenario Number One
    Given Step from 'Scenario 1' in 'scenarios' feature file

  Scenario: Scenario Number Two
    Given Step from 'Scenario 2' in 'scenarios' feature file
```

```gherkin
Feature: Scenario Outlines feature file

  Scenario Outline: <scen_out_row_num>
    Given Step from '<scen_out_row_num>' in 'scenariooutlines' feature file

    Examples: 
      | scen_out_row_num       |
      | Scenario Outline Row 1 |
      | Scenario Outline Row 2 |
```

- Add the **step definition class** to the `parallel` package in `src/test/java` folder.
{{% block "java" %}}

```java
package parallel;

import cucumber.api.java.BeforeStep;
import cucumber.api.java.en.Given;

public class Stepdefs {

	@BeforeStep
	public void beforeStep() throws InterruptedException {

> 		Thread.sleep(1000);

Reviewer: Why do we need this `sleep()` ?

Author: Ooops... I had added this to slow things down. Forgot to remove it. No need at all. Will remove it.

	}

	@Given("Step from {string} in {string} feature file")
	public void step(String scenario, String file) {
		System.out.format("Thread ID - %2d - %s from %s feature file.\n", Thread.currentThread().getId(), scenario,file);
	}
}
```
{{% /block %}}

{{% block "kotlin" %}}

```kotlin
package parallel

import cucumber.api.java8.En

class Stepdefs : En {
	
	init {
		BeforeStep() { ->
			Thread.sleep(1000)
		}
		
		Given("Step from {string} in {string} feature file") { scenario: String , file: String ->

>             println("Thread ID - %2d - %s from %s feature file.".format(Thread.currentThread().id,scenario,file))

Reviewer: Optional: Can we use String templating here? Maybe not with formatting... See also: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/23086291/format-in-kotlin-string-templates (it's fine to keep this as is)

Author: Done will add to commit

        }
	}
}
```
{{% /block %}}

> - Add a cucumber **runner** using the `RunWith` annotation in the `parallel` package in the `src/test/java` folder.

Reviewer: same question here regarding configuration. Is `parallel` needed? (I.e. will it work if I don't put them in a directory / package named `parallel`)

Author: No configuration reason. Just a package name I thought would be appropriate. Will mention that folder can be named anything.

{{% block "java" %}}

```java
package parallel;

import cucumber.api.junit.Cucumber;
import org.junit.runner.RunWith;

@RunWith(Cucumber.class)
public class RunCucumberTest {
}
```
{{% /block %}}

{{% block "kotlin" %}}

```kotlin
package parallel

import cucumber.api.junit.Cucumber
import org.junit.runner.RunWith

@RunWith(Cucumber::class)
class RunCucumberTest {
}
```
{{% /block %}}

- Add the **Surefire plugin configuration** to the `build` section to the `POM`.

```shell
<plugin>
	<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
	<artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
	<version>2.22.0</version>
	<configuration>
		<parallel>methods</parallel>
		<useUnlimitedThreads>true</useUnlimitedThreads>
	</configuration>
</plugin>
```

> - Use the Maven `install` or a suitable command to **execute** the `POM`. This should run in parallel threaded mode. You should see a result similar to below. It is important to note that **both the scenarios in the file (`scenarios.feature`) are executed by thread with ID 14**. Similarly **both the rows of the scenario outline in the file (`scenariooutlines.feature`) are executed by thread with ID 13**.

Reviewer: Rename to `scenario-outlines.feature` for readability? (if so, do this consistently)

Author: Will change all occurrences.

```shell
Thread ID - 13 - Scenario Outline Row 1 from scenariooutlines feature file.
Thread ID - 13 - Scenario Outline Row 2 from scenariooutlines feature file.
Thread ID - 14 - Scenario 1 from scenarios feature file.
Thread ID - 14 - Scenario 2 from scenarios feature file.
```

> - To execute using a Maven **Failsafe plugin include the below configuration** in the `build` section to the `POM`. Rename the runner class to `RunCucumberIT`.  You can find further details [here](/docs/community/not-cucumber/#maven-execution-plugin).

Reviewer: Ok, so if I understand correctly Surefire will run classes named *Test, and Failsafe will run classes named *IT?

Author: Yeah. The plugins pick up these class names matching the pattern automatically. There are a few other patterns mentioned in the linked article

Reviewer: Ok, thnx :)

```shell
<plugin>
	<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
	<artifactId>maven-failsafe-plugin</artifactId>
	<version>2.22.0</version>

> 	<executions>

Reviewer: I have added the `<executions>` section to our (Kotlin/Maven/JUnit) project and the build still passes. I'm not sure if and how I can see that the tests are run in parallel though?

Reviewer: I noticed that you are explicitly printing the Threads in this guide; ofcourse I don't do that in my project :)

Author: Thread id was the easiest I could think off. You can configure the timeline plugin to get a chart. But that would be bit off an overkill.

Author: Also the execution times should decrease.

		<execution>
			<goals>
				<goal>integration-test</goal>
				<goal>verify</goal>
			</goals>
			<configuration>
				<parallel>methods</parallel>
				<useUnlimitedThreads>true</useUnlimitedThreads>
			</configuration>
		</execution>
	</executions>
</plugin>
```

To set the thread count to a **specific number** instead of `useUnlimitedThreads` use the below setting.
```shell
<parallel>methods</parallel>
<threadCount>4</threadCount>
```

The thread count in the above setting is **4 threads per core**. If you want this to be **4 threads across all cores** set the `perCoreThreadCount` to **false**.
```shell
<parallel>methods</parallel>
<threadCount>4</threadCount>
<perCoreThreadCount>false</perCoreThreadCount>
```

If you have **multiple runners** then you can set the parallel option to `classesAndMethods`, `methods` or `classes`. For a single runner the `classes` option would be similar to a sequential execution.

> For a **visual representation** you can add the **timeline report** with the plugin option to a `CucumberOptions` annotation in the runner class. Scroll to the end for an image of the report.

Reviewer: I don't understand what you mean here? Could you be specific which option and how to add it?

> # TestNG

Reviewer: There's some duplication in this section, compared to the previous section. I'm wondering if we could remove the duplication *without* making it confusing, but I'm not sure at this point...

Author: Maybe a separate section in this tutorial which mentions how to set this up and what is the result. Then can be linked from the other parts.

Reviewer: Much better now, thanks!

Thread ID - 17 - [Scenario 2 from scenarios feature file.
```

- To execute using a Maven **Failsafe plugin**, setup the `POM` as described in the JUnit section. Remove the `parallel` and `useUnlimitedThreads` settings in the `configuration` part.

The default **thread count of the dataprovider** in parallel mode is **10**. To change this the `dataproviderthreadcount` property needs to be added to the `configuration` section of the Surefire or Failsafe plugin in the `POM`.
```shell
<configuration>
	<properties>
    	<property>
        	<name>dataproviderthreadcount</name>
        	<value>20</value>
    	</property>
	</properties>
</configuration>
```

If you have **multiple runners**, set the parallel configuration of `classes` to reduce execution times. In addition the `threadCount` can be set to to the desired value or `useUnlimitedThreads` can be set to true.
```shell
<configuration>
	<parallel>classes</parallel>
	<threadCount>4</threadCount>
</configuration>
```

For a **visual representation** you can add the **timeline report** with the plugin option to a `CucumberOptions` annotation in the runner class. Scroll to the end for an image of the report.

# CLI

> The `Main class` in the `cucumber.api.cli package` is used to execute the feature files. There is no need to create any runner class. The usage options for this class is mentioned [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-jvm/blob/v4.0.0/core/src/main/resources/cucumber/api/cli/USAGE.txt). The `--threads` option needs to be set to a value **greater than 1** to run in parallel. When the parallel mode is used, the scenarios and rows in a scenario outline will be run in multiple threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Main class` in the `cucumber.api.cli package` is used to execute the feature files. You can run this class directly from the command line; in that case, there is no need to create any runner class. The usage options for this class is mentioned [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-jvm/blob/v4.0.0/core/src/main/resources/cucumber/api/cli/USAGE.txt). The `--threads` option needs to be set to a value **greater than 1** to run in parallel. When the parallel mode is used, the scenarios and rows in a scenario outline will be run in multiple threads.
```

 
Below is the basic command to start the execution.
```shell

> java -cp <classpath> cucumber.api.cli.Main -g <steps package> --threads <thread count> <path to feature files>

Reviewer: With `<steps package>`, do you mean the package containing the step definitions? In that case I'd prefer to use `<step defs package>` instead.

Author: How about the glue code package?

```

> Follow the below steps to **execute the command from a terminal**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to **execute the command from a terminal**.
```

> - Download the necessary cucumber jars from the cucumber.io Maven repository (links provided under version number) or, if available, copy from the local repository into a folder. These need to be provided in the **classpath**. The versions mentioned are compatible with the latest cucumber release 4.3.0.

Reviewer: Please, let's **not** describe downloading the jars, as we really recommend not doing that. I realise you are doing this here to give an alternative to getting the dependencies through Maven, but doing so leads to many problems and also I'd rather not maintain this list in the documentation.
In fact, in that case it might be better to also leave out the sections about the Maven dependencies for JUnit and TestNG, and just link to the part of the docs where that is already described. Which will save some duplication also :)

Author: Removed the dependencies in CLI section.
For the other two the 10 minute tutorial uses the cucumber-archetype. Is that updated to get latest versions? I tried it out around 3 months back and it added some pretty old version,

Reviewer: The archetype has been updated to a more recent version (v4.?) but probably not *the* most recent version... It's a great thing to use to get started, but a pain to maintain.

Author: Using the archetype is a good solution. As long as it gets a V4 it works, unless in a future version parallel functionality is removed. Will add the link.

	2.  `cucumber-java.jar` [`4.3.0`](http://central.maven.org/maven2/io/cucumber/cucumber-java/4.3.0/cucumber-java-4.3.0.jar)
	3.  `cucumber-java8.jar` [`4.3.0`](http://central.maven.org/maven2/io/cucumber/cucumber-java8/4.3.0/cucumber-java8-4.3.0.jar)
	4.  `cucumber-html.jar` [`0.2.7`](http://central.maven.org/maven2/io/cucumber/cucumber-html/0.2.7/cucumber-html-0.2.7.jar)
	5.  `gherkin.jar` [`5.1.0`](http://central.maven.org/maven2/io/cucumber/gherkin/5.1.0/gherkin-5.1.0.jar)
	6.  `cucumber-expressions.jar` [`6.2.2`](http://central.maven.org/maven2/io/cucumber/cucumber-expressions/6.6.2/cucumber-expressions-6.6.2.jar)
	7.  `datatable.jar` [`1.1.12`](http://central.maven.org/maven2/io/cucumber/datatable/1.1.12/datatable-1.1.12.jar)
	8.  `datatable-dependencies.jar` [`1.1.12`](http://central.maven.org/maven2/io/cucumber/datatable-dependencies/1.1.12/datatable-dependencies-1.1.12.jar)
	9.  `tag-expressions.jar` [`1.1.1`](http://central.maven.org/maven2/io/cucumber/tag-expressions/1.1.1/tag-expressions-1.1.1.jar)
	10. `typetools.jar` [`0.5.0`](http://central.maven.org/maven2/net/jodah/typetools/0.5.0/typetools-0.5.0.jar)
	

> - Create a folder named `cukecli` and a folder `parallel` inside it, to keep the step definition classes and feature files.

Reviewer: I'd prefer a `cucumber` or `cucumbercli` directory (personal preference, I guess)

Author: Will change it.

- Create the **two feature files** (`scenarios.feature` and `scenariooutlines.feature`) inside the `parallel` folder as described in the JUnit section.

- Create the **step definition class** in the `parallel` folder as described in the JUnit section.

- Open up a **terminal window** and navigate to the source folder of the project, in our case `cukecli`.

> {{% block "java" %}}

Reviewer: When the content of the language blocks is the same, you can specify multiple languages in the same block, separated by a comma, like this `{{% text "java,kotlin" %}}` (see [Contributing to the documentation](https://cucumber.io/docs/community/contributing-to-documentation/#paragraphs-or-text-that-is-valid-for-multiple-programming-languages))

Author: Will change this

- Compile the step definition class. Add the **path to the folder containing cucumber jars to the classpath** using the **-cp** option.

```shell
javac -cp .;<path to cucumber jar folder>/* ./parallel/Stepdefs.java
```
{{% /block %}}

{{% block "kotlin" %}}
- Compile the step definition class. Add **path to each of the downloaded cucumber jars to the classpath** using the **-cp** option.

```shell
kotlinc -cp .;<path to each cucumber jar> -jvm-target 1.8 ./parallel/Stepdefs.java
```
{{% /block %}}

- Execute using the below command.

> {{% block "java" %}}

Reviewer: Same here.
Note that anything **outside** the language blocks would be visible on all polyglot pages (if we add javascript/ruby in the future).

Author: Will change this
